---
layout: post
title: 'Ruby Gems'
quote: "Rails is powered by gems"
date: 2015-05-20
categories: [Web Development]
---

## Gems are Rubies.

At a Ruby meetup, a mentor tried teaching me to use the GoodReads API. And at the same time, he introduced me to creating a gem. He would create a ruby file specifically to communicate with the API. Due to time constraints, we simply searched Rubygems for a usable gem. There was a gem that had partial documentation to get going. I could now use all of the GoodRead's API calls.

## Gemfile
Anything beyond your standard Rails project is mostly going to be coming from a Gem. User authentication, frameworks, testing, APIs, there's a gem for that. These gems help complete your Rails project because someone has already done what you are trying to accomplish. My sample gemfile looks like this.

```ruby
source 'https://rubygems.org'
ruby '2.2.1'
gem 'rails', '4.2.0'
gem 'sass-rails', '~> 5.0'
gem 'uglifier', '>= 1.3.0'
gem 'coffee-rails', '~> 4.1.0'
gem 'jquery-rails'
gem 'turbolinks'
gem 'jbuilder', '~> 2.0'
group :development, :test do
  gem 'byebug'
  gem 'web-console', '~> 2.0'
  gem 'spring'
end
gem 'devise'
gem 'foundation-rails'
gem 'pg'
gem 'simple_form'
# And plenty more.
```

## Compatibilities.
Gems contain a lot of magic. But there is never enough magic to resolve conflicts between gems that operate on the same objects. Methods over time will be deprecated, Rails updates will break functionality. There are lots of moving parts to deal with.

I select gems by checking the source code and scanning the latest commit dates. Then I poke around and see how their methods play along with my project.

## Final Remarks
Gems are plugins, wrappers, mods. Only use what you need, otherwise the program will become sluggish due to wasted deprecated code. At the same time, these gems are the ones connecting you to a wealth of information from the web.

## TODOs
1. Create a gem






