---
layout: post
title: "RSpec"
quote: 'The trusty clipboard'
date: 2015-05-20
categories: [web development]
---

## Lessons in Testing

RSpec is basically a flowchart. And your tests are your logical statements. I can have my first test be to wash my teeth, and I would have to think about how I would go about this. Since there are no requirements besides me entering the bathroom. I am going to proceed like this, goto_bathroom(), take_toothbrush(), brush_teeth(), and expect my teeth to be clean.

```ruby
 scenario 'brushes teeth' do
 self.goto_bathroom
 self.take_toothbrush()
 self.brush_teeth()
 expect(self.teeth).to be_clean
 end
```

The output is either pass or fail. So I no longer have to be my own tester and perform these tedious actions over and over. Who knows how many times I have to brush my teeth before they are clean.


# Helps Code Sanity

I always repeat myself to see whether or not I missed something. There is an error in the middle of a feature I am working on. How do I find it? Instead of staring at the error page, I could be working on a test for that. And when a test dumbs down the error, I can trace it and fix it.

# Your Thinking

I like to think of testing as both the hardest and most rewarding part. I get to finally test myself, understand how to use my program. All the use cases, and set up scenarios for errors.

But it is not easy, I had to read many examples of RSpec before understanding how to give calls. I cannot simply log out a user and then sign in another. It is necessary to understand the connection between my methods and program, program and internet, and program to test. Otherwise a single logical error throws you off.

And the reward is *glorious*. You **deliver**. You delivered a solid product ready for small testing with users. You know this because you saw your tests running your application, logging in, entering information, logging out. And you saw your own program work itself. Basically your tests are like mini robots, programmed to test while you relax. And this you done, and if you missed a small error. You will immediately be able to write a test for it and get it solved easily at this point.
