---
layout: post
title: 'Github'
quote: "Google Docs for Code"
date: 2015-05-12
categories: [Web Development]
---

# A Backup System for Code.
There is this ancient program called Microsoft Word. It was pre-installed along with Solitaire on your Windows computer. You became attached to a comical paperclip and typed endlessly to meet your word count. Fugazzi.

Then came Google Docs, a cloud based solution to writing documents. What could have been so special about a word processor on the web? It is a word processor that auto-saves and allows collaboration ONLINE.

Github is a lot like Google Docs, you collaborate with others and save important project states. It hosts your code for free and saves project states. Sounds pretty similar to Google Docs.

# The Process
Github likes to think of coding projects like trees. You start off with a single branch called "Master." This is the same branch we like to add code to. At this point we can think of our code as leaves growing on the branch.

In all cases I personally start with sanity checks. Get a basic "Hello World" page up as my first commit and add it to my master branch (Note: the master branch as of now is literally nothing). If I literally see "Hello World," then we start sprinting.

# Rinse and Repeat

1. git status
2. git checkout -b feature_X
3. CODING IN PROGRESS
4. git status
5. git add .
6. git commit -am "Feature X implemented"
7. git checkout master
8. git merge feature_X
9. git status
10. git checkout -b feature_Y
11. Step 3 and on.

# Allow me to explain

Git status is asking for a status report, see enough of these and you will know what is right or wrong. And checking out is switching to another branch (-b is a shortcut to create).

One you finish implementing your feature, run step 4 to add the code to the index. This is same as submitting a draft. Before you submit the final, you have to commit it. Commits are final and will be published with the code added.

So we finished implementing a feature (branch) and we would like to merge it back to our master branch. From here, I cannot just say merge back onto master. Because by the time we finished, someone could have possibly updated the master branch. We "checkout" our master branch, and tell it to merge the feature branch we recently completed. Merge it in, and check the status to make sure everything is right.

# A Few Cons
It is not intuitive, everything starts on the command line unless you invested in learning a GUI. All your repositories (projects) are public without paying for a subscription.

# Everything from 1-10
As a Version Management Tool [9]
Urgency to learn [10]
Features [10]
Sleekness [9]
Price [10]

Overall[10]







[DD]:http://www.reddit.com/r/trackers/comments/hrgmv/tracker_with_pdfsebooks_of_college_textbooks/c1xrq44
